High again in the last few lessons we've been focusing on confidence intervals.
We'll do that here too.
This lesson is about independent samples with variances unknown but assumed to be equal.
All right.
Think about this example you are trying to calculate the difference of the price of apples in New York
and L.A. you go to 10 grocery shops in New York and your friend Paul who lives in L.A. visits a grocery
shops in order to help you with the research.
Once you've organized the data in a table you start reflecting on how you can create a confidence interval
that shows the difference between the price of apples or New York.
And that way you don't know what the population variance of apples or New York or L.A. is but you assume
it should be the same for NY and L.A. So you calculate the mean price in NY and L.A. and obtained $3
and 94 cents and $3 and 25 cents respectively.
Moreover their sample standard deviations are 18 cents and 27 cents.
What should we do now.
Well we assume that the population variances are equal.
So we have to estimate them.
The unbiased estimate or in this case is called the pooled sample variance and we could use the following
formula to calculate it as you can see it is based solely on the sample sizes and the sample standard
deviations of the two datasets.
We quickly plug in the numbers and get a pooled sample variance of 0.05 and a pooled standard deviation
of 22 cents.
How about the statistic needed to form a confidence interval Well we have an unknown variance.
So you guessed it it's the t statistic.
Here's the formula for the confidence interval.
Let's compare it to the formula for independent samples with known variance.
We have the same difference of sample means for the variances instead of population variances.
We have the pooled sample variants and then instead of the Z statistic we have the statistic although
the formulas are different.
They are very consistent right.
You must be wondering about the statistic though it is a bit stranger this time.
So let's quickly try to clarify it the degrees of freedom are equal to the total sample size minus the
number of variables.
So far we have seen t's with n minus 1 degrees of freedom because we had a sample size of N and only
one variable.
This time we have two sample sizes one of ten and one of eight observations and two variables.
Apple prices in New York and aval prices in L.A..
Therefore we have 16 degrees of freedom.
All right.
Checking the statistic from the table for a 95 percent confidence interval with 16 degrees of freedom
we get 2.1 too.
Let's plug everything in and get our answer the 95 percent confidence interval is between 0.4 7 and
0.9 to.
What's the interpretation.
Well we are 95 percent confident that the actual difference between the two populations price of apples
in New York and in L.A. is somewhere between 0.4 7 and 0.9 to therefore it is clear that apples in New
York are much more expensive than in Olay.
Good job and thanks for watching.